-----
About
-----

This package is an open source python library that provides users a tool box for geotechnical pile
calculations.

This package allows the user to:

* Use basic Euler-Bernoulli beam theory (as well as Timoshenko's variation) to compute 
  forces, deflection of a beam (or a pile) under adequate loading and 
  support conditions.
* Use Winkler's approach of a beam (or a pile) supported by linear or non-linear lateral and/or 
  rotational springs to compute forces and deflection of the pile based on recognised 
  soil models such as the widely used traditional API models for sand and clay or more recent models that stem from 
  the PISA joint-industry project.

This library supports the following versions of python: 3.7-3.10. 
Python 3.11 is not supported!


System of units
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The unit system used in this library is the `International System of Units (SI) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_System_of_Units>`_. 
The primary units used in OpenPile are kN (kilonewton) and m (meter). 
The documentation should show the units to the user. If there are any ambiguity, 
please create an issue so that we can solve this.


Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Installing OpenPile is as easy as installing well-known python packages such as Pandas or Numpy. This is done 
via the below pip command.

.. code-block:: console

    pip install openpile


Some more help on installing python before OpenPile
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Via the generic Python distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. Go to the official Python website at https://www.python.org/downloads/ and 
   download python for your operating system (Windows, macOS, or Linux).
   **Note that only python version ranging from 3.7 to 3.10 are valid for openpile to run.**
#. Run the installer and follow the prompts to complete the installation process.
#. After installing Python, open a terminal or command prompt and type python to verify that 
   Python is installed correctly. You should see the Python version number.
#. To start using Python packages, you can use the built-in package manager called pip. 
   Type pip or pip3 (depending on your installation) in the terminal to see if it's installed correctly.
#. To install the awesome OpenPile package, use the command:
   
   .. code-block::
    
      pip install openpile
      
   This will download and install the package and all its dependencies.


Via the Anaconda distribution
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. Download and install the latest version of Anaconda from https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual.
#. Open the Anaconda Navigator application and select the "Environments" tab.
#. Click the "Create" button to create a new environment and enter a name for it (e.g. python37).
#. Select the desired Python version from the dropdown menu (e.g. Python 3.7) and click the "Create" button.
#. Repeat the previous steps to create environments for the other Python versions you want to install (e.g. 
   python38, python39, python310).
#. To switch to a specific environment, select it from the list and click the "Activate" button.
#. To install a package in the environment using pip, open a terminal window by clicking the 
   "Open Terminal" button in the "Environments" tab.
#. Use the following command in the Anaconda command prompt or via the navigator to install a package using pip in the environment:
   
   .. code-block:: console

      pip install openpile



Disclaimer
^^^^^^^^^^

This open source package is primarily provided for educational and research purposes. 
It is not intended to replace professional engineering advice or analyses. 
The analyses performed using this package may not accurately 
represent real-world situations or account for all possible variables and conditions.

Users of this package assume all responsibility and liability for any consequences
resulting from its use. The developers and contributors of this package make no 
warranties or guarantees, expressed or implied, regarding its accuracy, reliability,
or fitness for any particular purpose.

Users should exercise caution and use their professional judgement when interpreting
and applying the results generated by this package. In addition, users should be aware
that the laws and regulations governing the use of finite element analyses may vary
depending on their location and industry, and should comply with all 
applicable laws and regulations.

By using this package, users acknowledge and agree to the terms of this disclaimer.
